Are you confused about the differences between ERC 20, 37, 21 and ERC 1155? Is there some contracts? Stick around and I'll help you understand them.
First of all, what does ERC even stand for? Well, it's Etherium request or comment. I know it doesn't make sense. I didn't come up with it. He asks, are scripting standards or guidelines that all Ethereum based tokens should follow ERC 20 was first proposed in 2015 and integrated into the Ethereum blockchain in 2017. Some examples of ERC 20 tokens are USDC Shib and Dai.
An ERC 20 contract can have millions of tokens and these get distributed to owners. You can own multiple tokens and all the tokens have the same value. They are interchangeable. This makes ERC 20 tokens, FTT. They're fungible tokens. You can exchange them one for one, just like a fiat currency. ERC seven 21 contracts are similar to ERC 20 contracts.
You can still generate as many tokens as you want and distribute the use and you can own multiple tokens. The difference, though, is that ERC seven 21 tokens have extra functions and contain metadata. These are called smart contracts and because of this, each token can have unique properties, making each token unique. And you can't exchange one token for another because none are exactly the same.
This is why ERC seven 21 tokens have become the gold standard for NFTS or nonfungible tokens. Examples of NFTS that use ERC seven 21 contracts or CRYPTOPUNKS, the board, yacht club and Code Cats. Code Cats is my personal creation and I've been documenting how I created them and how you can create your own NFT collection to check them out and the videos linked in the description below.
Now let's talk about I.R.S. 1155 contracts, and these are a combination of ERC 20 and ERC seven 21 contracts. The contract has tokens, but these are not distributed. Each token is its own sort of contract So each token is an item and has its own supply. Supply is then distributed this way you can have fungible and nonfungible tokens on the same contract.
But why would you want to do this? The biggest industry where ERC 1155 contracts are taking off is gaming. In a game you'll have some sort of ingame currency. And so this is the fungible tokens and you also have different items within the game. You'll probably have some armor and weapons, but you don't want every piece of armor or weapon to be completely unique.
You might have ten different types of helmets, but each helmet can have its own supply. Some may have larger or smaller supplies to make them more or less rare. You can also have completely unique items, and these would be nonfungible tokens or NFTS. And again, all of this is on the same contract, making it easier to create this type of game.
But here's the 1155 contracts are not limited to just games. There are many other use cases. And on top of all of this, ERC 1155 contracts allow sending multiple and even different types of tokens together in one transaction. This greatly reduces network traffic and gas fees. The ERC 1155 contracts also include safe transfer rules. This verifies each transaction and if one fails, it can be reverted.
Returning the tokens back to the sender. This will prevent sending tokens into a black hole when you miss type an address. I think the ERC 1155 contract is a great addition to the blockchain. Let me know what you think or if you have any questions. Be sure to join my community Discord Server. There are lots of great people and conversations happening over there like this video to help me out and subscribe if you haven't already for more videos like this.
